   How to write a (good)
     research paper
                      Felipe Meneguzzi
Slides adapted from Simon Peyton-Jones (Microsoft Research)
              English English English
•   Modern science is written in English

    •   If something is worth reading, it is written in English

•   This is not cultural imperialism

    •   The Romans wrote science in Greek

    •   Even the French nowadays use English for scientific publication
        Why should I write a paper?


•   Fallacy of paper writing
    we write papers and give talks
    mainly to impress others, gain
    recognition, and get promoted
        Why should we write a paper?
•   Papers communicate ideas

    •   Your goal: to infect the mind of your reader with your idea, like a
        virus

    •   Papers are far more durable than programs (think Mozart)

        •   Remember that FORTRAN library that sorts lists using the
            quicksort function? Me neither!

•   The greatest ideas are (literally) worthless if you keep them to
    yourself
Writing papers: model I
            Do      Write
  Idea
         Research   Paper
             Writing papers: model II
                                          Do                 Write
                    Idea
                                       Research              Paper

                                        Write                  Do
                    Idea
                                        Paper               Research
•   Forces us to be clear, focused

•   Crystallises what we don’t understand

•   Opens the way to dialogue with others: reality check, critique, and collaboration

•   Writing papers is a primary mechanism for doing research
    (not just reporting it)
              Do not be intimidated

•   Fallacy: You need to have a fantastic idea before you can write a
    paper or give a talk. (Everyone else seems to.)



•   Write a paper, and give a talk, about any idea,
    no matter how weedy and insignificant it may seem to you
              Do not be intimidated

       Write a paper, and give a talk, about any idea, no matter how
                      insignificant it may seem to you

•   Writing the paper is how you develop the idea in the first place"

•   It usually turns out to be more interesting and challenging that it
    seemed at first
    The purpose of your paper is…
•   To convey your idea"

    •   …from your head
         to your reader’s head

    •   to infect your the mind of your
        reader with your idea, like a virus

    •   Everything serves this single goal
The purpose of your paper is not…

•   To describe the WizWoz system



•   Your reader does not have a WizWoz

•   She is primarily interested in re-usable brain-stuff, not executable
    artefacts
                             The Idea
                                                                 Idea
                                                         A re-usable insight,
                                                         useful to the reader
•   Your paper should have just one “ping":
    one clear, sharp idea

•   You may not know exactly what the ping is when you start writing,
    but you must know when you finish"

•   If you have lots of ideas, write lots of papers
            Can you hear the “ping”?
•   Many papers contain good ideas, but do not distill what they are

•   Make certain that the reader is in no doubt what the idea is.
    Be 100% explicit

    •   “The main idea of this paper is …”

    •   “In his section, we present the main contributions of the paper.”
                Conveying the idea
•   Here is a problem                 I wish I knew
                                    how to solve that!
•   It’s an interesting problem

•   It’s an unsolved problem                  I see how it works.
                                                  Ingenious!
•   Here is my idea"

•   My idea works (details, data)

•   Here’s how my idea compares to other people’s approaches
      Structure (conference paper)
•   Title (1000 readers)

•   Abstract (4 sentences, 100 readers)"

•   Introduction (1 page, 100 readers)

•   The problem (1 page, 10 readers)

•   My idea (2 pages, 10 readers)

•   The details (5 pages, 3 readers)

•   Related work (1-2 pages, 10 readers)

•   Conclusions and further work (0.5 pages)
                           The abstract
•   I usually write the abstract last

•   Used by program committee members to decide which papers to read

•   Four sentences [Kent Beck]

     1. State the problem

     2. Say why it’s an interesting problem

     3. Say what your solution achieves

     4. Say what follows from your solution
                          Example
1. Many papers are badly written and hard to understand

2. This is a pity, because their good ideas may go unappreciated

3. Following simple guidelines can dramatically improve the quality of
   your papers

4. Your work will be used more, and the feedback you get from others
   will in turn improve your research
                               Structure
•   Title (1000 readers)

•   Abstract (4 sentences, 100 readers)

•   Introduction (1 page, 100 readers)"

•   The problem (1 page, 10 readers)

•   My idea (2 pages, 10 readers)

•   The details (5 pages, 3 readers)

•   Related work (1-2 pages, 10 readers)

•   Conclusions and further work (0.5 pages)
        The introduction (1 page)
1. Describe the problem"

2. State your contributions

   ...and that is all (according to Simon)
   I would add

3. Restate key items from the abstract
   (why the problem is interesting, etc)

   And use intuitive language (do the hallway test)
            Molehills not mountains
                                                                 Yawn
•   “Computer programs often have bugs. It is very important
    to eliminate these bugs [1,2]. Many researchers have tried
    [3,4,5,6]. It is really very important.”

•   “Consider this program, which has an interesting bug.
    <brief description>. We will show an automatic technique
    for identifying and removing such bugs.”                     Cool!
                 convert deterministic planning domains with HTN                    planning problems, and (b) starting from a declarative rep-
                 domain knowledge and an action error model into                    resentation makes planning more comprehensible to humans,
                 MDPs that can then be solved, while maintaining a                  while extending the representation to stochastic domains.
                 bound on the number of MDP states.
                                                                                    2     Background
           1 Introduction               Describe the problem
         Deterministic planning domains are generally easy to visual-
                                                                                    2.1    MDPs
                                                                                    We consider an MDP to be a tuple ⌃ = (S, A, P r, u) where
         ize and understand, as the details of the meaning of transi-               S is a finite set of states, A is a finite set of actions, P r is a
         tions between states are clearly defined in the operators, and             state-transition system and u is a reward (or utility) function
         the resulting plans are intuitive and easily understood. One               [Ghallab et al., 2004]. The state-transition system defines a
         particular formalism for domain representation in determin-                probability distribution for each state transition. Here, given
         istic planning is the hierarchical task network (HTN) [Erol                {s, s0 } 2 S and a 2 A, P ra (s0 |s) denotes the probability of
         et al., 1994], which encodes not only STRIPS/PDDL actions                  transitioning from state s to state s0 when executing action a.
         with their preconditions and effects, but also domain knowl-                      If possible,
                                                                                    The solution   of an MDP useis a an  example
                                                                                                                     policy, which indicates the best
         edge in the form of a hierarchy of tasks that can be refined               action to to
                                                                                              takedescribe
                                                                                                   in each state.toA policy
                                                                                                                      problem⇡ here is a total function
                                                                                    ⇡ : S ! A mapping states into actions. The analogous to
 MDPsfrom  using      HTN objective
                 a high-level    representations
                                          into the actions required in the
                                                                                    goal states in MDPs are indirectly represented through util-
         environment. Conversely, one of the most widely studied for-
         malisms for planning under uncertainty is the Markov deci-                 ity functions, which typically assign a value u(aj , si ) to the
Yuqing Tang
         sion process (MDP) [Bellman,     Simon
                                             2003],Parsons
                                                       in which the evolution       choices of actions aj in states si . Such information makes it
 aduate Center
         of the environment is modeled   Brooklyn
                                              as a MarkovCollege chain, and the     possible to compute the value of a given state under a partic-
         goals   of the  planner City
                                  are implicitly   represented                      ular policy ⇡ — it is the expected value of carrying out the
 versity of  New    York                University        of NewinYorka function
                                                                                    policy from that state (where a = ⇡(s)), given a discount fac-
         that defines, for each state, the reward of executing a cer-
  York, NY,
         tain USA
               action. The definition  New    York, NY,
                                         of stochastic         USA problems
                                                            planning                tor.The optimal policy ⇡ ⇤ (s) is then one that maximizes this
         quickly becomes unwieldy
 @cs.gc.cuny.edu                         as the number of state variables
                                parsons@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu                       value, and can be found by various means.
         increase.1 As the number of states goes up, so does the size of            2.2    HTNs
         the transition probability tables, with problems requiring one
         such   table for each action in the domain. As a consequence,              An HTN planning domain is a pair D = (A, M) where A
             1
               Of course
         although    MDPsthe time andelegant
                              are an  space complexity
                                              mathematical of solving these prob-
                                                                 formalism    for   is a finite set of actions (or operators) and M is a finite set
         lems  grows exponentially
         representing    stochastic as well, butitthis
                                     domains,          is not
                                                    is not    our focus here. for
                                                            straightforward         of methods, and an HTN is a pair H = (T, C) where T
         non-specialists to model domains using this formalism.
            Our goal is to use HTN models, which are more user-
            State your contributions

•   Write the list of contributions first

•   The list of contributions drives the entire paper:
    the paper substantiates the claims you have made

•   Reader thinks “gosh, if they can really deliver this, that’s be exciting;
    I’d better read on”
   Yuqing Tang                            Simon Parsons
  Graduate Center                        Brooklyn College
 University of New York             City University of New York
New York, NY, USA                       New York, NY, USA
 ang@cs.gc.cuny.edu
                                 State your contributions
                                 parsons@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu


             such table for each action in the domain. As a consequence,
             although MDPs are an elegant mathematical formalism for
 do-         representing stochastic domains, it is not straightforward for
 hey         non-specialists to model domains using this formalism.
  the           Our goal is to use HTN models, which are more user-                       •   Do not leave the reader to
chi-         friendly, to automatically construct MDPs. In this paper we
 ion         propose a step towards this overall aim, showing how to use                      guess what your
   of,       HTNs to describe MDPs, thus allowing stochastic domains to
ing.         be modeled using HTNs that are then translated into MDPs                         contributions are!
ome          in order to be solved. Together with a simple model of action
 do-         error, our conversion process allows efficient MEU planning
 lop         over the state space induced by the HTN. The benefits of the
g of         approach are twofold: (a) reduction of the state space, and
 ans         consequent reduction of the computational burden is benefi-
 s to        cial since it enables the representation and solving of realistic     Bulleted list of
 TN          planning problems, and (b) starting from a declarative rep-           contributions
 nto         resentation makes planning more comprehensible to humans,
ng a         while extending the representation to stochastic domains.

             2   Background
             2.1 MDPs
 o visual-   We consider an MDP to be a tuple ⌃ = (S, A, P r, u) where
of transi-   S is a finite set of states, A is a finite set of actions, P r is a
 tors, and   state-transition system and u is a reward (or utility) function
             [Ghallab et al., 2004]. The state-transition system defines a
                           Evidence
•   Your introduction makes claims

•   The body of the paper provides evidence to support each claim

•   Check each claim in the introduction, identify the evidence, and
    forward-reference it from the claim

•   Evidence can be: analysis and comparison, theorems,
    measurements, case studies
Contributions should be refutable
                               We give the syntax and semantics of a language that
We describe the WizWoz system.
                               supports concurrent processes (Section 3). Its innovative
It is really cool.
                               features are...


                                   We prove that the type system is sound, and that type
We study its properties.
                                   checking is decidable (Section 4)


                                 We have built a GUI toolkit in WizWoz, and used it to
We have used WizWoz in practice. implement a text editor (Section 5). The result is half the
                                 length of the Java version.
        No “rest of this paper is…”
•   Avoid signposting paragraphs like: "The rest of this paper is
    structured as follows. Section 2 introduces the problem. Section 3 ...
    Finally, Section 8 concludes”

•   Instead, use forward references from the narrative in the
    introduction.
    The introduction (including the contributions) should survey the
    whole paper, and therefore forward reference every important part.
                               Structure
•   Title (1000 readers)

•   Abstract (4 sentences, 100 readers)

•   Introduction (1 page, 100 readers)

•   The problem (1 page, 10 readers)"

•   My idea (2 pages, 10 readers)"

•   The details (5 pages, 3 readers)"

•   Related work (1-2 pages, 10 readers)

•   Conclusions and further work (0.5 pages)
                   No related work yet!

                                            Related
                                             Work



We adopt the notion of transaction from Brown [1], as modified for distributed systems by White
[2], using the four-phase interpolation algorithm of Green [3]. Our work differs from White in our
advanced revocation protocol, which deals with the case of priority inversion as described by
Yellow [4].
                No related work yet
                                                           I feel tired

•   Problem 1: describing alternative approaches gets
    between the reader and your idea

•   Problem 2: the reader knows nothing about the
    problem yet; so your (carefully trimmed) description
    of various technical tradeoffs is absolutely
    incomprehensible
                                                           I feel stupid
                            Instead…
•   Concentrate single-mindedly on a narrative that

    •   Describes the problem, and why it is interesting

    •   Describes your idea"

    •   Defends your idea, showing how it solves the problem, and filling
        out the details

•   On the way, cite relevant work in passing, but defer discussion to the
    end
        The payload of your paper
    Consider a bufircuated semi-lattice D, over a hyper-modulated
    signature S. Suppose pi is an element of D. Then we know for every
    such pi there is an epi-modulus j, such that pj < pi.


•   Sounds impressive...but

•   Sends readers to sleep

•   In a paper you must provide the details,
    but first convey the idea
     The payload of your paper
            Introduce the problem, and your idea, using
                                 !

                            Examples"
                                 !

              and only then present the general case



• Remember: explain as if you were
 speaking to someone using a whiteboard
  In this section, we present a simple example of information
asymmetry, in which an agent has limited information about
the enforcement intensity of a norm. We evaluate the e↵ect

                              Using examples
of information asymmetry regarding norm enforcement on
the policies and utilities of agents operating in normative
stochastic environments.
4.1 Parking World
   In the example scenario, the agent’s environment is a grid
of cells as shown in Figure 1. The cell (1, 1) is designated      Put an example as
the start state, and cell (5, 5) is designated the end state.     soon as possible!
The agent can move from cell to cell orthogonally and can           (Ideally on the
also perform a null action (which leaves the agent in the            introduction)
same cell). In addition, the environment contains a ‘no-
parking cell’ (3, 3) in which stopping is prohibited. The
agent receives a positive reward for reaching the exit state,
and small negative rewards for visiting all cells other than
the no-parking cell. If the agent stops in the no-parking cell
and the violation of the norm is detected (i.e., the norm is
enforced), the agent receives a sanction of 1. If the viola-     Some papers even
tion is not detected (i.e., the organisation is not enforcing    have a dedicated
the norm), the agent receives a small positive reward, i.e.,      scenario section!
violating the norm and parking illegally is beneficial.
   This scenario is necessarily simplified, but it illustrates
how the behaviour of an agent can change depending on
                Conveying the idea
•   Explain it as if you were speaking to someone using a whiteboard

•   Conveying the intuition is primary, not secondary

•   Once your reader has the intuition, she can follow the details (but
    not vice versa)

•   Even if she skips the details, she still takes away something valuable
             Putting the reader first

•   Do not recapitulate your personal journey of discovery. This route
    may be soaked with your blood, but that’s not interesting to the
    reader

•   Instead, choose the most direct route to the idea
                               Structure
•   Title (1000 readers)

•   Abstract (4 sentences, 100 readers)

•   Introduction (1 page, 100 readers)

•   The problem (1 page, 10 readers)

•   My idea (2 pages, 10 readers)

•   The details (5 pages, 3 readers)

•   Related work (1-2 pages, 10 readers)"

•   Conclusions and further work (0.5 pages)
                      Related work


•   Fallacy: To make my work look good, I have to make other people’s
    work look bad
The truth: credit is not like money
                 Giving credit to others does not diminish
                    the credit you get from your paper


•   Warmly acknowledge people who have helped you

•   Be generous to the competition. “In his inspiring paper [Foo98]
    Foogle shows.... We develop his foundation in the following ways...”

•   Acknowledge weaknesses in your approach
              Credit is not like money
                         Failing to give credit to others
                               can kill your paper


•   If you imply that an idea is yours, and the referee knows it is not,
    then either

    •   You don’t know that it’s an old idea (bad)

    •   You do know, but are pretending it’s yours (very bad)
Making sure related work is accurate
•   A good plan: when you think you are done, send the draft to the
    competition saying “could you help me ensure that I describe your
    work fairly?”

•   Often they will respond with helpful critique

    •   Beware of known baddies (but this is rare)

•   They are likely to be your referees anyway, so getting their
    comments up front is jolly good
                          The process
•   Start early. Very early.

    •   Hastily-written papers get rejected

    •   Papers are like wine: they need time to mature

•   Collaborate

    •   Use SVN/Git/Mercurial/(Your flavour of VCS)
        to support collaboration
                        Getting help
                 Get your paper read by as many friendly
                         guinea pigs as possible
•   Experts are good

•   Non-experts are also very good

•   Each reader can only read your paper for the first time once! So use
    them carefully

•   Explain carefully what you want (“I got lost here” is much more
    important than “wibble is mis-spelt”.)
               Your supervisor’s help
                        You also want the English to be correct
                       before you send the paper to your advisor

•   You want your advisor to be able to critique your technical
    contribution

    •   English errors are very distracting (to me at least)

    •   More people know English than stochastic planning algorithms

•   Get help from your friends reading each other’s
         Listening to your reviewers
                            Every review is gold dust
                          Be (truly) grateful for criticism
                                 as well as praise



•   This is really, really, really hard

•   But it’s really, really, really, really, really, really important
        Listening to your reviewers

•   Read every criticism as a positive suggestion for something you
    could explain more clearly

•   DO NOT respond “you stupid person, I meant X”. Fix the paper so
    that X is apparent even to the stupidest reader.

•   Thank them warmly. They have given up their time for you.
Language and style
                              Basic stuff
•   Submit by the deadline

•   Keep to the length restrictions

    •   Do not narrow the margins

    •   Do not use 6pt font

    •   On occasion, supply supporting evidence (e.g. experimental data,
        or a written-out proof) in an appendix

•   Always use a spell checker
                    More Basic Stuff


•   Never use jargon without explaining it first
                      Visual structure
•   Give strong visual structure to your paper using

    •   sections and sub-sections

    •   bullets

    •   italics

    •   laid-out code (or algorithms)

•   Find out how to draw pictures (vector graphics!!), and use them
     18:         if s = a then                                              new plans to react to norm activation and expiration, it also affects
     19:            Suppress pl                                             which plans are available to an agent after a prohibition has been
     20:            SP lans,prohibition(P ) = SP lans ⌅ pl                  activated. Thus, the plan to react to the expiration of a prohibi-
     21:         end if                                                     tion must not only remove the new plans added to comply with the
     22:      end for                                                       norm, it must also restore the plans previously suppressed to their
     23:   end if                                                           initial state of availability. The plan of Algorithm 6 accomplishes
     24: end for


     be unsuppressed.
                            Visual structure                                this by unsuppressing the initially suppressed plans which, in the
                                                                            plan of Algorithm 4, were stored in the set SP lans,prohibition(P ) ,
                                                                            and      then     removing      plans    LActiv,prohibition(P )
                                                                            LExp,prohibition(P ) from the plan library.
                                                                                                                                             and

 1   @prohibitionStart(in(classifRoom))                                     Algorithm 6 Plan to react to the expiration of a prohibition
 2   +!Start : true
 3    <- !findPlansWithEffect(in(classifRoom), SPlans);                     Require: Acceptance of norm(Activ, Exp, prohibition(P ))
 4      !suppressPlans(SPlans);                                             Require: Receipt of Exp event
 5      +suppressedPlans(in(classifRoom),SPlans).                           Require: Label LActiv,prohibition(P ) for a norm activation plan
 6
 7   @prohibitionEnd(in(classifRoom))                                       Require: Plan library P L
 8   +!End : suppressedPlans(in(classifRoom),SPlans)                        Require: SP lans,prohibition(P ) of suppressed plans
 9    <- !unsuppressPlans(SPlans);                                          Ensure: Plan is uniquely labelled with label LExp,prohibition(P )
10      .remove_plan(prohibitionStart(in(classifRoom)));
11      .remove_plan(prohibitionEnd(in(classifRoom))).
                                                                             1: Unsuppress all plans from SP lans,prohibition(P )
            Listing 2: Plans generated from a state prohibition.             2: Remove plan LActiv,prohibition(P ) from P L
                                                                             3: Remove plan LExp,prohibition(P ) from P L
        Plans to effect restrictions on executing actions are very simi-
     lar to those relating to achieving world states, the only difference
     being in the process for selecting the plans that need to be sup-      4. NORMATIVE AGENTSPEAK(L)
     pressed. In this case, the plans searched for are those that contain      In order to test the viability of our solution in a practical agent
     a particular action. For example, if the cleaning agent might be       language, we have developed an implementation of the strategies
     obliged not to vacuum a table during its rounds of cleaning through    outlined in Section 3 using an AgentSpeak(L) interpreter. An im-
     the norm +norm(time(800), day(xmas), prohibition(vacuum(               portant part of this involves the manipulation of an agent’s own
     table)))[source(env)]. We do not include the example plans             plan library, necessitating a means to perform meta-reasoning, al-
     due to space constraints, but they should be obvious.                  lowing AgentSpeak(L) plans to manipulate other plans. With such
                                                                            a meta-reasoning facility in place, we can create AgentSpeak(L)
     3.3 Norm expiration                                                    plans that accomplish the norm-induced behaviour modification de-
        Now that we have seen the plans needed to start complying with      scribed above. We also point out that, while the plans shown in Sec-
     norms under several circumstances, we need to examine how an           tion 3 use constructs that were not described in detail, this section
     agent behaviour is modified as a result of a norm expiring. When       clarifies all the plan constructs used throughout the paper.
     an agent accepts a norm and changes its behaviour as a result of
     the norm becoming active, it either includes extra plans to comply     4.1 Meta-reasoning for AgentSpeak(L)
     with obligations or suppresses some of its plans in order to vio-         The AgentSpeak(L) language does not have explicit constructs
     late a prohibition. However, these behaviour modifications should      for the analysis of a plan library, yet this is required in the strate-
     not become permanent within an agent if the norms that caused          gies described in Section 3 and implemented in Section 4.2. In par-
     them cease to be active. Moreover, our monotonicity assumption         ticular, for an agent to evaluate its existing behaviours, encoded in
                                      Visual Structure
   Unifications can be composed ; that is, for any substitu-
                                                                                          Null (N)
tions 1 = {x1 /⌧1 , . . . , xn /⌧n } and 2 = {y1 /⌧10 , . . . , yk /⌧k0 },
their composition, denoted as 1 · 2 , is defined as {x1 /(⌧1 ·
  2 ), . . . , xn /(⌧n · 2 ), z1 /(z1 · 2 ), . . . , zm /(zm · 2 )}, where                consider
{z1 , . . . , zm } are those variables in {y1 , . . . , yk } that are not
in {x1 , . . . , xn }. A substitution is a unifier of two terms                          Inactive (I)        activate         Active (A)
⌧1 , ⌧2 , if ⌧1 · = ⌧2 · .

Definition 4 (Unify Relation). Relation unify(⌧1 , ⌧2 , ) holds                                  suspend                   suspend
i↵ ⌧1 · = ⌧2 · . Moreover, unify(p(⌧0 , . . . , ⌧n ), p(⌧00 , . . . , ⌧n0 ), )
                                                                                        reconsider                               reactivate
holds i↵ unify(⌧i , ⌧i0 , ), for all 0  i  n.
                                                                                                           Suspended (U)
   Thus, two terms ⌧1 , ⌧2 are related through the unify rela-
tion if there is a substitution that makes the terms syn-                                    drop _ abort       fail       succeed
tactically equal. In our representation and algorithms, we
adopt Prolog’s convention [1] and use strings starting with a
                                                                                       Terminated (T)        Failed (F)      Satisfied (S)
capital letter to represent variables and strings starting with
a small letter to represent constants.

3.3     Commitments                                                              Figure 2: Goal lifecycle as a state transition dia-
                                                                                 gram.
   Social commitments are extensively studied in multiagent
literature [9, 11, 20]. Specifically, a commitment C(debtor,
creditor, antecedent, consequent) means that a debtor
                                                                                    A goal is a state of the world that an agent wishes to bring
agent commits to a creditor agent to bring about the con-
                                                                                 about. We formulate a goal as: G = G(x, pg, s, f ), where x
sequent if the antecedent holds [16]. For example, in the
                                                                                 is an agent, pg is the precondition of the goal, the truth of
purchase scenario, the customer commits to the merchant
           Use the active voice
   The passive voice is “respectable” but it DEADENS your paper.
                         Avoid it at all costs.
                                                               “We" = you
                                                                and the
                                                                 reader
             No                            Yes

    It can be seen that...          We can see that...
                                                               “We" = the
      34 tests were run               We ran 34 tests
                                                                authors
These properties were thought We wanted to retain these
           desirable                    properties
 It might be thought that this You might think this would be
     would be a type error             a type error
                                                               “You" = the
                                                                 reader
  Use simple, direct language

                  No                                       Yes
The object under study was displaced
                                                 The ball moved sideways
             horizontally
          On an annual basis                              Yearly

        Endeavour to ascertain                           Find out
It could be considered that the speed of
                                           The garbage collector was really slow
storage reclamation left something to be
                desired
But do not be informal/imprecise

                 No                                       Yes

 The agent can’t call the move action   The agent cannot execute the move action

      We present an algorithm              We develop/introduce an algorithm

        The code doesn't run                     The code does not run

                                         The Arrows and Circles (AAC) diagram
    The AAC diagram shows that
                                                      shows that
                    Other Documents
•   The guidelines here are not necessarily universal for all science
    documents, e.g:

    •   Journal papers (similar but not identical)

    •   Diploma theses (TC) / Masters dissertations / PhD theses

•   You must be mindful of:

    •   Who is the target readership

    •   What is the purpose of the document you are writing
                       Journal Papers
•   Very similar to conference papers, however:          Purpose: Consolidate
                                                              Research
    •   No page limit (usually)

    •   Presents mature research, for a wider audience

•   Needs to be self-contained                           Reader: Researchers in
                                                           your broader area
    •   More background, more related work

•   Extensive results and comparison with related work
                 Academic Milestones
•   Undergrad, MSc, PhD
                                                             Purpose: Convince a
•   Serve two purposes:                                       committee that you
                                                             earned your degree
    •   Convince your committee that you know your stuff

    •   Show that you have achieved what you committed to
        do at TC1 / PEP / PT

•   Needs to be self-contained                               Reader: Whoever is
                                                               available at the
    •   Make no assumptions about the reader                department + someone
                                                              your advisor likes
    •   Needs to include signposting
              The Elements of Style

•   Read this book (brochure really):
    The Elements of Style: William Strunk, Jr. (1918)

•   Many important tips on good style for writing in English.
                             Summary
1. Don’t wait, write

2. Identify your key idea

3. Tell a story

4. Nail your contributions

5. Related work: later

6. Put your readers first (examples)

7. Listen to your readers
                    More Resources
•   Website Simon Peyton-Jones at Microsoft Research
    http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/simonpj/

•   Resources at my website
    http://www.meneguzzi.eu/felipe/students.shtml
    http://www.meneguzzi.eu/felipe/research.shtml

•   Courses on Scientific Writing
    http://www.escritacientifica.com/en/

•   Writing scientific articles for Portuguese speakers
    http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3935133/
